.Dd February 8, 2005
.Os
.Dt DLOPEN 3
.Sh NAME
.Nm dlopen 
.Nd load and link a dynamic library or bundle
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In dlfcn.h
.Ft void*
.Fn dlopen "const char* path" "int mode"
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Fn dlopen
examines the mach-o file specified by 
.Fa path .
If the file is compatible with the current process and has not already been 
loaded into the current process, it is loaded and linked.  After being linked,
if it contains any initializer functions, they are called, before
.Fn dlopen
returns.  
.Fn dlopen
can load dynamic libraries and bundles.  It returns a handle that can
be used with 
.Fn dlsym
and
.Fn dlclose .
A second call to 
.Fn dlopen
with the same path will return the same handle, but the internal reference
count for the handle will be incremented.  Therefore all 
.Fn dlopen
calls should be balanced with a 
.Fn dlclose
call.
.Pp
If a null pointer is passed in 
.Fa path ,
.Fn dlopen
returns a handle equivalent to RTLD_DEFAULT.
.Pp
.Fa mode
contains options to 
.Fn dlopen .
It must contain one or more of the following values, possibly ORed together:
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width RTLD_LAZYX
.It Dv RTLD_LAZY
Each external function reference is bound the first time the function is called.
.It Dv RTLD_NOW
All external function references are bound immediately during the call to
.Fn dlopen .
.El
.Pp
.Dv RTLD_LAZY
is normally preferred, for reasons of efficiency.
However,
.Dv RTLD_NOW
is useful to ensure that any undefined symbols are discovered during the
call to
.Fn dlopen .
If neither 
RTLD_LAZY nor RTLD_NOW is specified, the default is RTLD_LAZY.
.Pp
One of the following flags may be ORed into the
.Fa mode
argument:
.Bl -tag -width RTLD_GLOBALX
.It Dv RTLD_GLOBAL
Symbols exported from this image (dynamic library or bundle) will be available to any 
images build with -flat_namespace option to  
.Xr ld 1
or to calls to
.Fn dlsym
when using a special handle.
.It Dv RTLD_LOCAL
Symbols exported from this image (dynamic library or bundle) are generally hidden
and only availble to
.Fn dlsym
when directly using the handle returned by this call to 
.Fn dlopen .
If neither 
RTLD_GLOBAL nor RTLD_LOCAL is specified, the default is RTLD_GLOBAL.
.El
.Sh SEARCHING
.Fn dlopen
uses a series of steps to find a compatible mach-o file.  The first compatible file found is used.
.Pp
1) If the directory specified by 
.Fa path 
does not contain a slash '/' (i.e. it is a leaf name) then the environment variable LD_LIBRARY_PATH is 
used.  LD_LIBRARY_PATH should be a colon seperated list of directories.  
.Fn dlopen
searches each directory, in the order specified, for the leaf name 
.Fa path .
.Pp
2) If DYLD_LIBRARY_PATH is set, then those directories are searched, in order, 
with the leaf name of 
.Fa path .
.Pp
3) If DYLD_FALLBACK_LIBRARY_PATH is set, then those directories are searched, in order
with the leaf name of 
.Fa path .
If DYLD_FALLBACK_LIBRARY_PATH is not set, then the following directories are searched: $HOME/lib, /usr/local/lib, /usr/lib
.Pp
4) Lastly, 
.Fa path
is tried as-is as a regular file path.  That means it might resolve relative to the current working directory. 
.Pp
Note: There are no configuration files to control dlopen searching.  
.Pp
Note: Mac OS X uses "fat" files to combine 32-bit and 64-bit libraries.  This means there are no separate 32-bit and 64-bit search paths.
.Pp
.Sh RETURN VALUES
If 
.Fn dlopen
fails, it returns a null pointer, and sets an error condition which may be interrogated with 
.Fn dlerror .
.Sh AUTHORS
Mac OS X 10.3 incorporated the dlcompat package written by Jorge Acereda <jacereda@users.sourceforge.net>
and Peter O'Gorman <ogorman@users.sourceforge.net>.
.Pp
In Mac OS X 10.4, dlopen was rewritten to be a native part of dyld.
.Pp
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr dlclose 3
.Xr dlsym 3
.Xr dlerror 3
.Xr dyld 3
.Xr ld 1
